CalcTunes - A Desktop Style Music Player for Android
----------------------------------------------------

CalcTunes is a music player designed from the ground up for power users.  I wanted an Android media player that let me be in control of where
files are located, what files are part of my library, and when they should be scanned.  I also was tired of copying all my songs manually to
my phone and having to organize them in folders and manually transcode my FLAC collection into Vorbis or MP3.  To that end I found Subsonic,
a GPL media server that lets you browse and automatically transcode your library via a simple XML-based API.

CalcTunes now supports a wide variety of media sources and organization types:

Libraries
---------
    Libraries are user-set groups of media folders that are scanned into a database of media files.  They are then organized by Artist/Album/
    Track in a hierarchical list.  Libraries allow you to scan in files from both organized and unorganized folders from anywhere on your
    device and view them in an organized list.

Playlists
---------
    Playlists are user-set lists of individual tracks.  Tracks can come from any location on your device.  Playlists are saved in the XSPF
    XML playlist file format.

Filesystem
----------
    CalcTunes has a built in file browser for playing media files directly from filesystem locations without putting them into a library or
    playlist first.  Just open Filesystem, browse to the folder where your file resides, and select it to open it.  CalcTunes also handles
    Intents from other file management apps, so you can open songs from browsers like ES File Explorer and Cyanogen File Manager into
    CalcTunes.

Subsonic Servers
----------------
    CalcTunes can connect to Subsonic servers using the mobile device API.  This allows you to browse through your full Subsonic library
    and download tracks to your device from it.  CalcTunes supports both transcoded downloading ("streaming" in Subsonic terms) as well
    as original, non-transcoded downloading.  When setting up a Subsonic server source, you can select locations for both transcoded and
    original file downloading.  Downloaded files will automatically be saved in an Artist/Album/XX Song.ext naming convention.  Note that
    CalcTunes does not currently support "streaming" - that is, the entire track must completely download before you can start listening
    to it.  This is a limitation of the Android MediaPlayer API unfortunately, any way around it is an ugly hack or a big chunk of third
    party media playback code so I don't plan on making this high priority.  I mainly recommend using Subsonic as a way to get media on
    to your device without having to use your PC directly, then scan in the downloaded tracks as a Library or put them in a Playlist.

Other Features:

Media Information View
----------------------
    CalcTunes has a media information view page that is displayed for the current track if you click on the album art.  It shows a large
    view of the artwork plus a list of all of the media file information tags as well as file path, bitrate, sample rate, and file codec
    format information.  I hope to eventually pull artist and album info from Wikipedia and/or Last.FM and put it on this page as well.

Automatic Playback Modes
------------------------
    CalcTunes can automatically start playback when certain external events occur.  These include plugging in headphones and connecting
    a Bluetooth A2DP audio device.  This is optional and defaults to off.  When enabled, playback of a user-set media source will begin
    as soon as the event occurs.  Additionally, playback may be set to automatically stop and close the application when the headphones
    or Bluetooth device disconnects.  CalcTunes supports use of the media control buttons while minimized so you can change tracks and
    pause the music from the buttons.

Audio Effects Engine
--------------------
    CalcTunes does not contain an audio effects engine in itself, but it does support the Audio Effects subsystem of Android.  You may
    enable Audio Effects in the settings which, when enabled, allows apps like CyanogenMod's DSP Manager and Viper's Audio For Android
    to apply equalizer, bass boost, and other effects to the music.  I definitely recommend using CalcTunes in conjunction with one of
    these audio effects apps for the best experience.

Planned Features:

Audio Tag Editor
----------------
    I hope to eventually add a tag editor to the Media Information view.  CalcTunes uses the JAudioTagger library to read audio file
    tags and this great library also supports tag writing.  I hope to make use of this capability so you can fix tags without having
    to use your PC.

Android Media Database Source
-----------------------------
    Android maintains a system-wide media database of all the music and video files it thinks are on the device.  While it can miss
    files in unconventional locations (such as user-determined Samba mounts), it does a reasonable job now in newer versions of
    Android and having the ability to use this source provides a quick and easy alternative when you don't care about customizing
    your own Library or Playlist.

Current Version - Version 0.55 Alpha (4/6/2014)
---------------
    -Updated README
    -Initial playlist functionality - create playlists, add songs to playlists, remove songs from playlists, and delete playlists supported.
    -Playlists using XML XSPF playlist format
    -Subsonic transcoding format and bitrate are now user settable in the subsonic source configuration dialog
    -Subsonic downloaded tracks can be deleted through the Subsonic content view
    -Better handling of Subsonic file paths to accommodate transcoded and original path types
    -.flac no longer hard coded as the original format for Subsonic downloads - reads original suffix from server now
    -New capability to jump to the next artist/album by quickly tapping next/prev buttons multiple times, still needs work
     This will hopefully make it easier to browse large libraries using only the buttons while driving.